README.md, before:

# DigitalWashing

This repository contains the MATLAB implementation of **Digital Washing**, a method developed as part of a research study on automated sperm detection in time-lapse semen videos.

This work was presented at the following conference:
> **“DIGITAL WASHING” OF SEMEN TIME-LAPSE IMAGES**  
> *Ludvik Alkhoury, Atilla Sivri, JiWon Choi, Justin Bopp, Albert Anouna, Andreas W. Henkel, Matthew VerMilyea, Moshe Kam*, *IEEE MLSP*, *2025*

---

## Main Script

In order to run the main script, follow these instructions:

1) Select a directory to save this repository to. This can be done by creating a directory on your Desktop (for example: C:/MyPC/Desktop/GitRepo/).  
Open Git Bash and type:
```
cd "C:/MyPC/Desktop/GitRepo/"
```
2) Clone this repository into the directory:
```
git clone "https://github.com/DFL-KamLab/DigitalWashing.git"
```

3) Open MATLAB and navigate to the `DigitalWashing` directory.

4) Open the main script:

```
DigitalWashing_Main.m
```

5) Before running the script, update the file paths inside the script:
```
% Path to the .mat file containing the video tensor:
%   - Dimensions: [width (pixels) × height (pixels) × number of frames]
Video_Tensor_Path = 'Path to the video tensor file';  

% Path to the ground truth file:
%   - Matrix with columns [x-coordinate, y-coordinate, frame index]
GT_File = 'Path to the ground truth file';  
```
Example videos can be found under "DigitalWashing\Example Video and Ground Truth"

6) Once paths are correctly set, run the script in MATLAB:
```matlab
DigitalWashing_Main

Commit message:

Modified the Readme and maded asmall change for the DigitalWashing_Main code.

README.md, after:

# DigitalWashing

This repository contains the MATLAB implementation of **Digital Washing**, a method developed as part of a research study on automated sperm detection in time-lapse semen videos.

This work was presented at the following conference:
> **“DIGITAL WASHING” OF SEMEN TIME-LAPSE IMAGES**  
> *Ludvik Alkhoury, Atilla Sivri, JiWon Choi, Justin Bopp, Albert Anouna, Andreas W. Henkel, Matthew VerMilyea, Moshe Kam*, *IEEE MLSP*, *2025*

---

## Main Script

In order to run the main script, follow these instructions:

1) Select a directory to save this repository to. This can be done by creating a directory on your Desktop (for example: C:/MyPC/Desktop/GitRepo/).  
Open Git Bash and type:
```
cd "C:/MyPC/Desktop/GitRepo/"
```
2) Clone this repository into the directory:
```
git clone "https://github.com/DFL-KamLab/DigitalWashing.git"
```

3) Open MATLAB and navigate to the `DigitalWashing` directory.

4) Open the main script:

```
DigitalWashing_Main.m
```

5) Before running the script, change your path to your working directory in MATLAB:
```
cd('C:/MyPC/Desktop/GitRepo/DigitalWashing')
```

6) Once paths are correctly set, run the script in MATLAB:
```
DigitalWashing_Main
```
